content/docs/reference/cms/index.md, before:

---
created_at: 2025-02-06T12:00:00-08:00
title: Content Management
summary: |
    Content management reference
---

## Content management reference

At a high level, HyperTemplates attempts to be unopinionated about the structure of HTML content and layouts.
The [core specification] is primarily concerned with HTML templates (layouts) and template data (content) as inputs, which are used to generate individual **web _pages_** (HTML documents) as outputs.
When it comes to building **web _sites_**, a more opinionated approach to content management is required.

### The HyperText Management System

The content management system used by `hyperctl` is called the HyperText Management System (HTMS). 
This reference documents the HTMS building blocks, including: websites, authors, pages, assets, attachments, tags, feeds, and namespaces.
For more information on `hyperctl` itself, please visit the [CLI reference documentation]. 

**Websites**
: The HyperText Management system organizes content into websites.
  
  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/website/'></learn-more>

**Authors**
: All content must be attributed to one or more authors.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/authors/'></learn-more>

**Pages**
: A website is a collection of pages.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/pages/'></learn-more>

**Assets**
: A page may contain one or more assets (e.g. images and other files).

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/assets/'></learn-more>

**Attachments**
: A page may feature one or more attachments (files or links).

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/attachments/'></learn-more>

**Tags**
: Websites may organize smaller collections of pages using tags.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/tags/'></learn-more>

**Feeds**
: Website updates are organized into feeds.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/feeds/'></learn-more>

**Namespaces**
: Non-page content can be managed in custom data namespaces.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/namespaces/'></learn-more>

<!-- Links -->
[core specification]: /docs/reference/core/
[`hyperctl`]: /docs/reference/cli/
[CLI reference documentation]: /docs/reference/cli/

Commit message:

CHONKY WIP COMMIT
* Updated invalid page metadata (as revealed by the new hyperctl page ls command!)
* Minor content revisions
* Updated site.yaml for latest hyperctl changes
* Updated content types for latest hyperctl changes

content/docs/reference/cms/index.md, after:

---
created_at: 2025-02-06T12:00:00-08:00
title: Content Management
summary: |
    Content management reference
---

## Content management reference

At a high level, HyperTemplates attempts to be unopinionated about the structure of HTML content and layouts.
The [core specification] is primarily concerned with HTML templates (layouts) and template data (content) as inputs, which are used to generate individual **web _pages_** (HTML documents) as outputs.
When it comes to building **web _sites_** (collections of HTML documents), a more opinionated approach to content management is required.

### The HyperText Management System

The content management system used by `hyperctl` is called the HyperText Management System (HTMS). 
This reference documents the HTMS building blocks, including: websites, authors, pages, assets, attachments, tags, feeds, and namespaces.
For more information on `hyperctl` itself, please visit the [CLI reference documentation]. 

**Websites**
: The HyperText Management system organizes content into websites.
  
  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/website/'></learn-more>

**Authors**
: All content must be attributed to one or more authors.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/authors/'></learn-more>

**Pages**
: A website is a collection of pages.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/pages/'></learn-more>

**Assets**
: A page may contain one or more assets (e.g. images and other files).

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/assets/'></learn-more>

**Attachments**
: A page may feature one or more attachments (files or links).

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/attachments/'></learn-more>

**Tags**
: Websites may organize smaller collections of pages using tags.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/tags/'></learn-more>

**Feeds**
: Website updates are organized into feeds.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/feeds/'></learn-more>

**Namespaces**
: Non-page content can be managed in custom data namespaces.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/namespaces/'></learn-more>

**Content Types**
: Content templates for generating new pages.

  <learn-more ht-element href='/docs/reference/cms/content-types/'></learn-more>

<!-- Links -->
[core specification]: /docs/reference/core/
[`hyperctl`]: /docs/reference/cli/
[CLI reference documentation]: /docs/reference/cli/
