content/docs/tutorials/learn/index.md, before:

---
created_at: 2025-05-25T08:00:00-07:00
title: Learn HyperTemplates
description: Learn more about the HyperTemplates core building blocks
summary: |
    Learn more about the HyperTemplates core building blocks
breadcrumb: Learn
---

## Learn HyperTemplates

<auto-toc selectors='h3,h4,h5,h6,dl dt'></auto-toc>

### Introduction

Coming soon...

### Setup

There are only three requirements for this series of tutorials: 

* The HyperTemplates CLI tool (`hyperctl`) ([downloads]) 
* A text editor 
* A browser

### Lessons

**Lesson 1: Content templating**
: Learn more about content templating.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-1/'></learn-more>

**Lesson 2: Attribute templating**
: Learn more about content templating.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-2/'></learn-more>

**Lesson 3: Template conditionals**
: Learn more about template conditionals.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-3/'></learn-more>

**Lesson 4: Template includes**
: Learn more about template includes.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-4/'></learn-more>

**Lesson 5: Template iterators**
: Learn more about template iterators.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-5/'></learn-more>

**Lesson 6: Short codes**
: Learn more about short codes.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-6/'></learn-more>

<!-- Links -->
[downloads]: /downloads/

Commit message:

Ongoing documentation sprint improvements
* Added new `tutorial-nav` block for easier navigation through long tutorials 🤌🏽
* Added `<hr>` to text-heavy documentation pages (which is most of them)
* Changed `grid-` prefix to `content-` prefix for grid system (element tags + styles)

content/docs/tutorials/learn/index.md, after:

---
created_at: 2025-05-25T08:00:00-07:00
title: Learn HyperTemplates
description: Learn more about the HyperTemplates core building blocks
summary: |
    Learn more about the HyperTemplates core building blocks
breadcrumb: Learn
---

## Learn HyperTemplates
-----------------------

<auto-toc selectors='h3,h4,h5,h6,dl dt'></auto-toc>

### Introduction
----------------

Coming soon...

### Setup
---------

There are only three requirements for this series of tutorials: 

* The HyperTemplates CLI tool (`hyperctl`) ([downloads]) 
* A text editor 
* A browser

### Lessons
-----------

The best way to learn HyperTemplates is to work the lessons in this tutorial.
You'll learn enough to start building in just a few minutes, and the entire tutorial can be completed in about 15-20 minutes. ⏱️

**Lesson 1: Content templating**
: Learn more about content templating.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-1/'></learn-more>

**Lesson 2: Attribute templating**
: Learn more about content templating.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-2/'></learn-more>

**Lesson 3: Template conditionals**
: Learn more about template conditionals.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-3/'></learn-more>

**Lesson 4: Template includes**
: Learn more about template includes.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-4/'></learn-more>

**Lesson 5: Template iterators**
: Learn more about template iterators.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-5/'></learn-more>

**Lesson 6: Short codes**
: Learn more about short codes.

  <learn-more ht-block href='./lesson-6/'></learn-more>

<!-- Links -->
[downloads]: /downloads/
