content/docs/reference/core/markdown/index.md, before:

---
created_at: 2025-01-26T11:00:00-08:00
title: Markdown
summary: |
    Markdown
---

## Markdown

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Learn Markdown](#learn-markdown)
* [Specification](#specification)
  * [HyperMark](#hypermark)
  * [Frontmatter](#frontmatter)
  * [\@mentions](#mentions)
  * [\#hashtags](#hashtags)

### Overview

Markdown is a document format [created by John Gruber] for <mark>writing for the web</mark>.
The markdown syntax was designed to generate HTML from plain text (markdown) documents.
Markdown (and its [many variants]) have become so ubiquitous that it even used to generate formatted text beyond the web (e.g. in messaging platforms like [Whatsapp], [Slack], and [Discord]).

### Learn Markdown

There are far too many excellent resources for learning markdown for us to attempt our own.
Here are a few of our favorites:

* [Markdown Guide](https://ia.net/writer/support/basics/markdown-guide) by @ia.net[^1]
* [CommonMark Tutorial](https://commonmark.org/help/tutorial/) by @commonmark.org
* [Basic writing and formatting syntax](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax) by @github.com
* [Working with advanced formatting](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/working-with-advanced-formatting) by @github.com

### Specification

#### HyperMark

The markdown engine in HyperTemplates is called HyperMark.
HyperMark is based on the [GitHub Flavored Markdown] dialect, and compliant with the latest version of the [CommonMark Specification].

HyperMark also provides support for [HyperMentions] – \@mentions and \#hashtags for the open web.

#### Frontmatter

HyperMark supports YAML-formatted frontmatter.
Frontmatter is a block of key-value content that lives at the top of every Markdown file, wrapped in an opening and closing `---` demarcation.

```markdown
---
title: About YAML Frontmatter
description: An introduction to YAML frontmatter
---

Lorem ipsum, hipsters get some.
```

In this example we have defined two frontmatter properties: `title` and `description`.
These would be made available to HyperTemplates as [template data] along with the body of the Markdown document as a field called `content`.

Learn more:

* [YAML]
* [YAML frontmatter]

#### \@Mentions

HyperMark automatically converts \@mentions to links (i.e. `<a>` elements).
A \@mention is a string that begins with the `@` symbol, followed by any combination of alphanumeric, dot (`.`), underscore (`_`), dash (`-`), and forward slash (`/`) characters.
A \@mention must contain at least one dot (`.`) character.

All **\@mention** `<a>` elements generated by HyperMark use the `https://` URL scheme and have a boolean `data-hyper-mention` HTML attribute.

**Example:**

<code-snippet ht-element filename='index.md'>

```markdown
Powered by @hypertemplates.net!
```

</code-snippet>

**Output:**

```html
<p>Powered by <a href='https://hypertemplates.net' data-hyper-mention>@hypertemplates.net</a>!</p>
```

#### \#Hashtags

HyperMark automatically converts \#hashtags to links (i.e. `<a>` elements).
A \#hashtag is a string that begins with the `#` symbol, followed by any combination of alphanumeric, underscore (`_`), and dash (`-`) characters.
A \#hashtag must contain one non-numeric character (e.g. `#1` is treated as a numeric reference equivalent to "number one", not "hashtag one").

All **\#hashtag** `<a>` elements generated by HyperMark will have relative href values (`/tags/:hashtag`) and have a boolean `data-hyper-mention` HTML attribute.

**Example:**

<code-snippet ht-element filename='index.md'>

```plaintext
HyperTemplates is a pure #HTML templating system for the modern web.
```

</code-snippet>

**Output:**

```html
<p>HyperTemplates is a pure <a href='/tags/html' data-hyper-mention>#HTML</a> templating system for the modern web.</p>
```


<!-- Links -->
[Created by John Gruber]: https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax
[many variants]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown
[Whatsapp]: https://faq.whatsapp.com/539178204879377/?cms_platform=iphone
[Slack]: https://slack.com/help/articles/202288908-Format-your-messages
[Discord]: https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/210298617-Markdown-Text-101-Chat-Formatting-Bold-Italic-Underline
[GitHub Flavored Markdown]: https://github.github.com/gfm/
[CommonMark Specification]: https://spec.commonmark.org
[iA Writer]: https://ia.net/writer
[HyperMentions]: #
[hypertext]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext
[template data]: /docs/reference/core/data/
[YAML]: https://yaml.org
[YAML Frontmatter]: https://docs.github.com/en/contributing/writing-for-github-docs/using-yaml-frontmatter

<!-- Footnotes -->
[^1]: for our money at team @hypertemplates.net, [iA Writer] is the best markdown editor of all time.

Commit message:

CHONKY WIP COMMIT
* Updated invalid page metadata (as revealed by the new hyperctl page ls command!)
* Minor content revisions
* Updated site.yaml for latest hyperctl changes
* Updated content types for latest hyperctl changes

content/docs/reference/core/markdown/index.md, after:

---
created_at: 2025-01-26T11:00:00-08:00
title: Markdown
summary: |
    Markdown
---

## Markdown

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Learn Markdown](#learn-markdown)
* [Specification](#specification)
  * [HyperMark](#hypermark)
  * [Frontmatter](#frontmatter)
  * [\@mentions](#mentions)
  * [\#hashtags](#hashtags)

### Overview

Markdown is a document format [created by John Gruber] for <mark>writing for the web</mark>.
The markdown syntax was designed to generate HTML from plain text (markdown) documents.
Markdown (and its [many variants]) has become so ubiquitous that it is even used to generate formatted text beyond the web (e.g. in messaging platforms like [Whatsapp], [Slack], and [Discord]).

### Learn Markdown

There are far too many excellent resources for learning markdown for us to attempt our own.
Here are a few of our favorites:

* [Markdown Guide](https://ia.net/writer/support/basics/markdown-guide) by @ia.net[^1]
* [CommonMark Tutorial](https://commonmark.org/help/tutorial/) by @commonmark.org
* [Basic writing and formatting syntax](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax) by @github.com
* [Working with advanced formatting](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/working-with-advanced-formatting) by @github.com

### Specification

#### HyperMark

The markdown engine in HyperTemplates is called HyperMark.
HyperMark is based on the [GitHub Flavored Markdown] dialect, and compliant with the latest version of the [CommonMark Specification].

HyperMark also provides support for [HyperMentions] – \@mentions and \#hashtags for the open web.

#### Frontmatter

HyperMark supports YAML-formatted frontmatter.
Frontmatter is a block of structured data that lives at the top of every Markdown file, wrapped in an opening and closing `---` demarcation.

```plaintext
---
title: About YAML Frontmatter
description: An introduction to YAML frontmatter
---

Lorem ipsum, hipsters get some.
```

In this example we have defined two frontmatter properties: `title` and `description`.
These would be made available to HyperTemplates as [template data] along with the body of the Markdown document as a field called `content`.

Learn more:

* [YAML]
* [YAML frontmatter]

#### \@Mentions

HyperMark automatically converts \@mentions to links (i.e. `<a>` elements).
A \@mention is a string that begins with the `@` symbol, followed by any combination of alphanumeric, dot (`.`), underscore (`_`), dash (`-`), and forward slash (`/`) characters.
A \@mention must contain at least one dot (`.`) character.

All **\@mention** `<a>` elements generated by HyperMark use the `https://` URL scheme and have a boolean `data-hyper-mention` HTML attribute.

**Example:**

<code-snippet ht-element filename='index.md'>

```plaintext
Powered by @hypertemplates.net!
```

</code-snippet>

**Output:**

```html
<p>Powered by <a href='https://hypertemplates.net' data-hyper-mention>@hypertemplates.net</a>!</p>
```

#### \#Hashtags

HyperMark automatically converts \#hashtags to links (i.e. `<a>` elements).
A \#hashtag is a string that begins with the `#` symbol, followed by any combination of alphanumeric, underscore (`_`), and dash (`-`) characters.
A \#hashtag must contain one non-numeric character (e.g. `#1` is treated as a numeric reference equivalent to "number one", not "hashtag one").

All **\#hashtag** `<a>` elements generated by HyperMark will have relative href values (`/tags/:hashtag`) and have a boolean `data-hyper-mention` HTML attribute.

**Example:**

<code-snippet ht-element filename='index.md'>

```plaintext
HyperTemplates is a pure #HTML templating system for the modern web.
```

</code-snippet>

**Output:**

```html
<p>HyperTemplates is a pure <a href='/tags/html' data-hyper-mention>#HTML</a> templating system for the modern web.</p>
```


<!-- Links -->
[Created by John Gruber]: https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax
[many variants]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown
[Whatsapp]: https://faq.whatsapp.com/539178204879377/?cms_platform=iphone
[Slack]: https://slack.com/help/articles/202288908-Format-your-messages
[Discord]: https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/210298617-Markdown-Text-101-Chat-Formatting-Bold-Italic-Underline
[GitHub Flavored Markdown]: https://github.github.com/gfm/
[CommonMark Specification]: https://spec.commonmark.org
[iA Writer]: https://ia.net/writer
[HyperMentions]: #
[hypertext]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext
[template data]: /docs/reference/core/data/
[YAML]: https://yaml.org
[YAML Frontmatter]: https://docs.github.com/en/contributing/writing-for-github-docs/using-yaml-frontmatter

<!-- Footnotes -->
[^1]: for our money at team @hypertemplates.net, [iA Writer] is the best markdown editor of all time.
